"x"
"_August 13._--I sent Mr. Nealson with our _jurebassos_ to Taccamon"
"Dono, to desire his Lordship that Goresonas wife might be forthcoming"
"at the kinges retorne to Firando, to answer to what her husband would"
"aleadg against her, for that her proceadinges were a dishonor both to"
"hym and me; which he retorned me word was true, and that yf she had byn"
"a man, as she was a woman, he would have taken an other course then"
"that he had donne, for that in some sort women have more privelege then"
"men."
""
"And sowne after, Taccaman Donos man wrot a letter to Gorisan to com"
"and speake with hym, which he did, and was per his masters order, whoe"
"tould Goresano that he had better considered of the matter, and that,"
"yf he would, he would make his wife retorne againe to hym, whether she"
"would or no; or else, yf I would, he would cause her nose to be cut ofe"
"and banish her out of the cuntrey. This new change is per reason that,"
"yf this matter of his wife be brought in question before the king, the"
"other of the sea _bongew_ must be the lyke, which would be nothing to"
"the lyking of Zanzabar and his rase, etc."
""
"And after nowne the capten and masters of the 2 Duch shipps came to the"
"English howse and brought me a present of 2 baricas of Spanish wine, 3"
"Hollands cheeses, 2 small potts of butter, and a bundell of stockfish."
""
"And about midnight Mr. Eaton arived at Firando from Miaco, and, as he"
"tells me, hath lent 100 bars of gould to the King of Firando, to be"
"paid againe at 3 months; which is such a greefe unto me in respect of"
"the presant use we have of money, that I know not what to doe. I did"
"littell think Mr. Eaton would have served me so, I haveing written"
"hym expresly to the contrary. Mr. Eaton sayeth the common report is"
"that Fidaia Samme is yet living, with 5 or 6 other principall men, and"
"thought to be in Shashma."
""
"Mr. Eaton brought me 5 letters as followeth, viz., 1 from King of"
"Firando, with 2 _catabras_, from Miaco; 1 from Ushenusque Dono, our"
"_bongew_, from Miaco; 1 from our host of Osekey, Yasozama Amanoia"
"Dono; 1 from Gilbert Cunings wife, from Edo; 1 from Andrea, Capt."
"Adams brother in law, from Edo. Mr. Eaton tills me how this Andrea and"
"Mickmoy, our host, dealed Judasly with hym at Edo."
""
