"x"
"_August 12._--I sent Capt. Adames 3 hense and 6 loves bread, he having"
"written for charcole, lyme, and oyle for the junk, but could not be"
"sent per meanes of the rayne."
""
"Also I receved 2 letters from Langasaque from Jno. de Lievana and Jorge"
"Durois, of the 19th and 20th currant, new stile, wherein they write me"
"much news, viz., that Don Jno. de Silva hath a fleet of 15 gallions, 8"
"or 9 gallies, with many friggates and China _somas_, to transport an"
"army of 3,000 souldiers to the Molucos against the Duch; and that 3"
"gallions came from Aguapulca to the Manillias with halfe a million of"
"plate for the setting forward of those affares against the Hollanders;"
"and that a new Viz Roy was sent to Goa, called Don Jeronimo de Torres,"
"and knight of the order of St. Yago, and is likewaies ordayned governor"
"of the Phillipinas, and carrieth 200 substantiall Spaniards with hym to"
"Goa, amongst whome 1 is apointed for visitor, being well assisted with"
"other Spaniardes, a thing never seen in the Portingall Indies before;"
"and that no matter may passe but per his permission; and that he hath"
"sent away Don Diego de Basconçelos, the former Viz Roy, in cheanes"
"for Portingale till he be out of sight of land, and confiscat all his"
"goodes, which vallued above 200,000 rialles of 8, because he denied to"
"send succors the last yeare to Don Jno. de Silva to have gon against"
"the Hollanders at Molucos, for which it is thought he will loose his"
"head, yf he live to com into Portingale."
""
"Many other matters they write me, as of the duble mariadg betwixt the"
"princese of France and Spaine; and that the King of Spaine hath marid"
"the Duke of Savoies daughter;[96] and that the said Duk was generall in"
"an armado per sea aginst the Turke, where the Christians tooke 150 of"
"the Turks gallis; and that the King of France hath made 12 new gallions"
"and sent them to the sucker of his father in law, the King of Spaine,"
"with such forcese, that they and the Archduke have taken 20 seale of"
"Holland shipps which were prepared to goe for the East Indies, and also"
"have taken 3 citties or townes from the Hollanders; but I esteeme this"
"a fable, for this Holland ship now com for Firando came out of Holland"
"but 14 moneths past."
""
"Many other matters they wrot of, which is overlong to set downe,"
"namely, that the Kinge of Spain was sending an embassador to the"
"Emperour of Japon with a greate present, in respect of his favour to"
"Christians. So it seemeth he did littell know how he hath formerly"
"banished all Christians out of his dominions: I meane all fryres,"
"monkes, jesuists, and pristes."
""
