"x"
"_June 5._--I receved a letter from Figen a Camme, King of Firando,"
"dated in Shrongo 18 dais past, with 3 salmons for a present. Also he"
"writes me of the good entertaynment the Emperour gave hym, with lycense"
"to retorne to Firando when he pleaseth, and that the Empr. gave hym 18"
"_keremons_ or gowns, with 18 storkes or salted fowles, for a present, a"
"matter much esteemed in these partes."
""
"Also I receved a complementall letter from Torayemon Dono, with another"
"inclosed for the China Capt. which I delivered presently. Torayemon"
"Dono advized of presentes geven the king."
""
"And after dyner Mr. Nealson retorned from Ikanaura with Mr. Eaton"
"and the _bongew_ of Firando which went to Fingo, and Mr. Eatons host"
"of Langasaque who went to vizet hym at Ikanoura so sowne as he heard"
"he was in trowble, and hath kept hym company ever since, conveaying"
"a musket and other armes into prison to defend hym against them of"
"Fingo, yf they went about to offer violence, offring his person for his"
"defence till the death, yf need required."
""
"The _bongew_ which went for Fingo retorned with answer to them of Umbra"
"that they should set the Englishman at liberty, for that he would"
"not medell with them, being under the Emperour his protection; and"
"that them of Fingo, which began this brute, went upon their affares"
"without knowledg to hym, and therefore he would not defend them in the"
"action. Yet, notwithstanding all this, they of Umbra would not deliver"
"Mr. Eaton in 2 dais after the news came, siting still in _dancons_"
"or councell about it, making delayes, keeping hym baricaded till the"
"last hower. And, although the other _bongew_ used Mr. Eaton kindlie at"
"first, and let Mr. Nealson goe and vizet hym, yet after he restrayned"
"hym and would not let hym speake with hym in 2 daies. Their hatred"
"against us (I meane them of Umbra) is per meanes of the padrese or"
"pristes, who stered them up against us to make us odious to the Japons,"
"for they are all, or the most part, papisticall Christians in Umbra,"
"and attribute a great (or cheefe) occation of banishment of them out"
"of Japon per meanes of the English, many papistes and Jesuistes lying"
"secretly lurking in most partes of Japon till this hower. Yet I hope"
"in tyme to use the lyke frenship to them as they have donne now to us."
"And it is serten them of Umbra are enemies to them of Firando, for that"
"Foyne Samme recovered from them much land which they had taken from"
"Doca Samme his father, and added much of Umbra unto it, which they of"
"Firando pocesse till this day."
""
