"x"
"_October 6._--We ment to have spoaken with Oyen Dono and rest about our"
"busynes, but could not com to speech of them, they were so busye about"
"other matters."
""
"I wrot a letter to the seniora at Orengaua to thank her for our kynd"
"entertaynment. We carid a present to Inga Dono."
""
"This man is Lord Cheefe Justice of Japon, and now newly com from"
"Miaco. I made knowne unto hym the occation of my retorne, by meanes"
"of the proclemation at Miaco that we should sell non of our goodes in"
"those partes. He tould me it was true that the Emperour had sent downe"
"such order, that we should have no other place of sales but Firando."
"I answerd hym that the Emperour might as well banish us right out of"
"Japon as bynd us to such an order, for that we could make no sals"
"at that place, as I had fownd by experience of 3 yeares space and"
"upwardes. He answerd me he could not withstand the Emperours pleasure,"
"and that at present all matters were in other manner in Japon then in"
"tyme of the ould Emperour, and that he could do us small pleasure in"
"the matter, it being in the secretaries power to do most; yet, as tyme"
"should serve, he would doe his best."
""
"The letter I sent to Mr. Wickham was kept till this day, and sent per"
"a man of Firando, neighbour to Yasimon Dono; wherin I advized hym I"
"dowbted I should not make an end so sowne as I thought, and therefore"
"wished hym to send away Mr. Wilson and the rest to Firando, but, for"
"the _bongew_, he might stay my comyng yf he would."
""
"We went also to the howses of Codgskin Dono and the rest, but could not"
"com to speech of any, they, as it seemed to me, playing least in sight,"
"which caused me to write 2 letters to Cawkesayemon Dono, secretary to"
"Oyen Dono, willing hym to stand our frend to solicit his master for"
"our dispach; which he answered me he both had donne and would doe, but"
"verely thought we could have no dispach till after the hollidaies or"
"feast, which begineth the 9th currant and lasteth 3 or 4 daies."
""
