"x"
"_July 25._--I wrot a letter to Gonrok Dono about my processe with"
"scrivano, and sent Mr. Totton with it, accompanid with Harry Shank and"
"Co. John for _jurebasso_."
""
"Also I wrot another letter to Jorge Durois in answer of his two, and"
"sent hym 30 _tais_ per Mr. Totton, paid out per Mr. Jno. Osterwick,"
"viz.:--"
""
"                                                        _ta. ma. co._"
"  Pro 2 _cattis_ almandes for Mr. Totton, cost           01   0   0"
"  Pro 1 peare cotton yorne stockinges for myselfe,"
"  cost                                                   01   0   0"
"  Pro 20 pigions to put into dufhowse, cost              02   0   0"
"  Pro tallo candelles for howse expence, cost            01   5   0"
"  Pro 1 peare russet silk stocking for Mr. Totton        02   5   0"
"  Pro 2 peare cotton yorne stocking for Mr. Totton       01   2   0"
"  Pro 1 pec. black satin for my selfe                    10   0   0"
"  Pro 33 sarsages (or langusas) for howse expence        00   8   0"
"  Pro 12 drid neates tonges for howse expence            00   5   0"
"  Pro a jar green ginger, containing 55 _cattis_, for"
"  howse expence                                          06   5   0"
"  Pro 1 peare russet silk stocking for my selfe, cost    03   0   0"
"  Pro 1 peare cotton yorne stockinges for my selfe       00   7   0"
"                                                         ----------"
"        Som totall amontes unto                          30   7   0"
"                                                         ----------"
""
"Mr. Totton carid Henry Shank and Co. John with hym for _jurebassos_,"
"and Andrea Dittis wrot a letter to his brother to helpe Mr. Totton in"
"our affares."
""
"I rec. a letter from Capt. Whow, China Capt. at Langasaque, with 10"
"pots sett with trees and slowers [flowers?], and 4 gilden fyshes, for a"
"present."
""
"I forgot to note downe how Soyemon Dono made a fishing over against"
"English howse with cormorants made fast to long cordes behind their"
"winges, and bridles from thence before their neckes to keepe the fish"
"from entring their bodies, so that when they took it they could take yt"
"out of their throtes againe."
""
"This day one George Dowry,[247] an English gentleman which serveth"
"in the Holland shipp (whose father, as I understand, is a Devonshire"
"man and a justice of peace and dwelleth at Dowry house), he tould me"
"that there is much hould and keepe amongst the Holland councell heare."
"Som would have the comander to goe up, and others no, espetialy Capt."
"Speck is wholy against it. Soe it is thought the fiscall shall procead"
"in that voyage. Also he sayeth the comander, Jno. Dirickson Lamb, is"
"much blamed for his proceadinges at Manillas, his comition being to"
"keepe his fleete togeather to defeate that of Don Juan de Silva; but he"
"unadvisedly seperated them, and so was set upon at an unadvantadg, by"
"which meanes he was overthrowne."
""
"He also tould me they took a small junck, wherin they fownd all"
"Don Jno. de Silvas designes, emprinted in the Spanish tong in the"
"Manillias, which was to have joyned his forces of the Manillias,"
"which were 10 gallions, to those which he thought to have fownd at"
"Malacca com from Goa and other places, which, with gallies and other"
"vessells of war, might be as many more, I meane 20 seale in all. With"
"which forces he first thought to have gon directly for the Ilands of"
"Murises[248], there to have met with such Holland shipps as were bound"
"homwards, and after the spoile of them to have retorned by the cost"
"of Sumatra, and so for Bantam, to have destroid all, both English and"
"Duch, not letting any one remeane alive, generall nor other. But, as"
"I noted heretofore, his forces he ment to have met at Malacca were"
"destroid and 4 gallions Portugezes burned, one per the King of Achin"
"and the other 3 per the Hollanders. So, Don Jno. dying at Malacca,"
"his fleet was dispersed, one gallion being cast away in a storme at"
"Malacca, and other 2 sent for New Spayne. So 7 retorned for Manillas,"
"where they wintered and were brought agrownd, most of them being halfe"
"full of water and all unrigged when the Hollanders first came on the"
"cost, which they saw with their eyes; yet the gridines of pilling China"
"junks made them to abstayne from that they ought to have donne till it"
"was to late to be amended."
""
