"x"
"_August 3._--The China Capt. being ready to goe for Goto, I lent hym"
"our boate and wastclothes, and delivered hym back 120 Rs. of 8, which"
"was the rest of the 200 Rs. 8 lent hym before and retorned, the other"
"being delivered hym after at his going to Langasaque, viz., 80 Rs."
"of 8. Also I paid hym 38 _mas_ in Rs. of 8 for 1 _cattie_ silk at 20"
"_mas_, and 3 peces red China taffetie at 18 _mas_, is 4¾ Rs. 8."
""
"And tuching the force used against my _jurebasso_ the other night, I"
"thought good, with the advice of the rest, to make it knowne unto the"
"cheefe justice in the kinges abcence, Mr. Wickham accompanying me."
"They all tould me I had greate reason in what I did, and that they"
"would take order that this _bongew_ should not offer my _jurebasso_"
"any wronge; the which I certefied Capt. Adames of in good termes by a"
"letter sent hym to Cochi, where I heard he la sick. But he retorned"
"me a very harsh answer, as all the rest of our cuntremen can witnesse"
"which saw it. He shewed hym selfe a fermer frend to Zanzaber and his"
"consortes then to me and the rest of his contremen."
""
"Also Capt. Speck sent for Mr. Wickham to com and speak with hym, and"
"complained much of my _jurebasso_, that he had a bad tonge and had"
"geven out vild reports of hym and his nation. I retorned hym answer, I"
"never heard hym use any such speeches, and, yf he thought me hys frend,"
"he might think I could not endure neather hym nor any other use such"
"speeches, without geveing him notis therof and chastesing the speakers,"
"yf they were my servants. In fine, his desire was to have me to send"
"for these _bongewes_ and to make an end of these matters in frendship;"
"unto which I answerd that I knew not whether they would com or no, yf"
"I sent for them, yet, yf there were any meeting, I desired that Capt."
"Adames might be present, and they should not find me out of reason."
"And soe I advised Capt. Adames, allthough he burdened me I went about"
"to meyntayne a theefe against all reason, which all men may think that"
"heare hym say soe that no honest man would doe it."
""
"And I had allmost forgot to note downe how I delivered a writing to"
"Andrea Dittis, the China Capt., under my hand and seale, witnessed"
"by Mr. Ric. Wickham, Mr. Wm. Nealson, and Mr. Ed. Sayer; wherin I"
"consorted with hym and Capt. Whaw, his brother, and a therd brother"
"which they have in China, that yf they procure us trade into China, to"
"repay them all such sums of money and money worth as they should lay"
"out in procuring thereof; but yf it tooke not effect, then the losse to"
"light upon them selves. And they are to turne an other writing to me,"
"to use their best endevour in doing therof only for Englishmen and no"
"nation else whatsoever. And soe the Lord God grant a good suckcesse to"
"our proceadings."
""
"I wrot 2 letters to Jorge Durois and Damian Marin, and receved 1 from"
"Jno. de Lievano of the 11th of August, new stile, of complementos. But"
"I wrot Georg Durois to buy us a peare of milstones and som candells,"
"and send them per first [ship]."
""
