"x"
"_July 30._--I sent Capt. Speck a quarter of beefe. Much a dow had I"
"this day about clearing our _jurebasso_ Goreson, whome Zanzebar and"
"his wives rase thought to have destroyed, and, as I take it, at the"
"instigation of the Duch. For they sent me word, as I was at dyner,"
"that for my sake they had saved his life, yet would have hym to avoid"
"the towne within 5 or 6 dayes. I retorned them answer, I held them"
"for no justices nor judges, and that I had need of my _jurebassos_"
"service; but the felloe which came on the messadge was soe forward"
"in his speeches that he tould me, yf I sent him not away, that those"
"fellowes servantes would kill hym as he went in the street. Yow must"
"understand his adversaries are the hangmen or execusioners of the"
"towne. But I retorned answer that I was under the protection of Ogosho"
"Samme the Emperour, and had it under his ferme, that no justice in"
"Japan might meddell with me nor no servant in my howse, but per the"
"Emperours permition, and yet more larger then I spake it; and therefore"
"I warned them upon their heads, as they would answer it with their"
"whole generation, that they should not tuch hym till the king of this"
"place retorned. Which answer put them into such a quandare, that they"
"sent me word that, for my sake, they were content to pardon hym of all"
"matters and to be his frend. This word was sent me per Capt. Adames,"
"whome, before God and man, I must needs blame for taking part with"
"that vild fello Zanzabar, _alias_ Yasimon Dono, whom, per experience,"
"I have found to be an absolute cuning knave, and therupon have donne"
"all I can to make Capt. Wm. Adames to know it; yet he still esteemeth"
"hym more then all our English nation, and still he would pawne his lyfe"
"and soule for his honestie. And I cannot chuse but note it downe, that"
"both I my selfe and all the rest of our nation doe see that he (I meane"
"Mr. Wm. Adams) is much more frend to the Duch then to the Englishmen,"
"which are his owne contremen, God forgeve hym. I leave it to his owne"
"contience, and to God and the world, to be judges with what respect I"
"have used hym ever since we came into Japan."
""
"An other matter is now set on foote, which I never did heare of till"
"this instant; and is, that we were cozened of 4 or 500 _taies_ (yf"
"not more) in the price we paid for our junck, and that it was parted"
"betwixt Zanzabar, our host Andrea at Langasaque, and other their"
"copsmates,[91] wherof Miguel our _jurebasso_ was one, and had 50"
"_taies_ for his share; but as yet I can fynd no witnese of the truth,"
"yet I verely beleeve it to be true, although Capt. Adams have no hand"
"in the matter. For with their smoath speeches they make a childe of"
"hym, and soe do what they list, and he will not beleeve any man that"
"will speake to the contrary. And thus much thought I good to note"
"downe, that it may be extant whether I live or dye."
""
"Capt. Speck, Jno. Yoosen, and Mr. Matias came unlooked for to the"
"English howse to supper. Capt. Speck tould me he understood that Mr."
"Eaton was on his way coming from Miaco. God send hym well."
""
