"x"
"_July 3._--I went and viseted Tonomon Samme, the kinges brother, and"
"carid hym 2 _barsos_ wyne and 2 cordes drid fyshes, exskewsing my not"
"coming before since his brothers departure. He asked me whie we did"
"not take China junkes, as well as the Hollanders. I answerd hym we"
"could not take any that were frendes to the King of England, as the"
"Chinas weare and all others till wars were procleamed. He also asked me"
"whether we would take Spaniardes or Portingall shipps, yf we met them."
"I answerd hym that we had more reason to doe that then to take Chinas,"
"for that they did take ours, yf they had strength to doe it. ""But,"""
"said he, ""I think the Emperour will not permit the one nor the other"
"to meddell with the shipp of Amacon."" I tould hym I thought to the"
"contrary, that the Emperour would rather permit us to take Spaniardes"
"then Chinas, for, yf we took them, we would bring them in heare. ""But,"""
"said he, ""yf yow had taken her this yeare, yow might well have brought"
"her in. But how should we doe hereafter, yf yow debar us from that"
"continuall trade?"" I answerd we should not want to bring in yearly the"
"lyke comodetie either from one place or other."
""
"He tould me that he had noted a long tyme that the Hollanders and we"
"were frendes but from tooth outward and not cordially, as neighbours"
"and frendes ought to be. I answerd hym the falt was not ours but the"
"pride of the other, which would make the world to beleeve they were"
"that which they were not. For that it was well knowne there was no"
"comparison to be made betwixt their small state, governed by a county,"
"with the mighty and powrefull government of the King of England, whoe"
"did in som sort governe them, keeping garrisons in their cheefest"
"places."
""
"I also tould hym I marveled that the Firando _bongews_ the other day"
"did take the ores out of the boates which carid us abord the Holland"
"shipps, with such peeces of stuffes as were geven our folkes to make"
"them aparell. He answerd me he knew nothing thereof, only order was"
"geven by Taccamon Dono to restreigne all men from buying till order"
"came from themperour what was to be donne therein. I asked hym then by"
"what authorety Gorezano was suffered to buy and to goe up and downe"
"in the shipps with greate bagges of money, to buy and doe what hee"
"list; which speech put hym to a non plus that he knew not what to say."
"In fine, I tould hym that I had a processe against this Goresano for"
"money he owed me, and had required justice long ago, and put my papers"
"into Taccamon Donos handes, but could have no end thereof, only now I"
"desird hym that seeing this fello had money to build howses and buy"
"merchandiz, that he might be constrayned to pay me that which he oweth."
"He answerd me he would speake to Taccamon Dono to doe me justice."
""
"There came 2 Japons to the English howse, which came in these Duch"
"shipps, and complaine that the Hollanders will not pay them their wagis"
"according to promis, and desired, when our shiping came, yf we had need"
"of men, that they might be entertayned, for that they would not serve"
"the Hollanders any more, haveing byn soe badly dealt with for their 6"
"yeares servis now past."
""
