"x"
"_November 2._--I went to se the monumentes of the towne, viz. the"
"temple of Dibottes,[220] with the hudge collosso or bras imadg (or"
"rather idoll) in it, it being of a wonderful bignes, the head of it"
"reaching to the top of the temple, allthough he sat croselegged, it"
"being all gilded over with gould, and a great wall or plate behind the"
"back of it the lyke, whereon was carved the pickture of the son. The"
"temple of it selfe is the hugest peece of building that eaver I saw, it"
"not haveing any other thing in it but the idoll, which standeth in a"
"cercle or chappell just in the midell therof, with 4 rowes of pillars"
"of wood, 2 on eather side, from the on end of the temple to the other,"
"each one reaching to the top of it; the compose of each pillar being"
"3 fathom, and all dyed over with red occar, as all the temple within"
"is the lyke. And a littell from the north end of the temple is a tower"
"with a bell hanging in it, the bigest that ever I saw. And from the"
"easter dore of the temple stand two rowes of ston pillars, of som dozen"
"in a rowe, a pretty distance on from the other, going downe to a mighte"
"huge gatehowse, on either side of which within stands a mightie gilded"
"lyon, and without the gate on each side (as portars) a hudge giant, mad"
"after a furious fation. The truth is, all of it is to be admired."
""
"And not far from this temple is an other, of very neare 10 skore yardes"
"in lenghe, I say ten skore; but it is narow. And in the midest thereof"
"is placed a greate bras Dibotes (or idoll), but nothing neare the"
"greatenes of the former. And out of the sids of it proceed many armes"
"with hands, and in each hand on thing or other, as speares, sword,"
"dagges, spades, arrowes, knyves, frutes, fyshes, fowles, beastes, come,"
"and many other matters and formes; and out of the head procead many"
"littell heades, and over the great head proceadeth a glory of long"
"bras rayes made lyke to the son beames, as the papostes paynt over the"
"saintes. And on both sids, to the end of the howse, are set 3333 other"
"bras images, standing on foote upon steps, on behind an others back,"
"all apart on from an other, with glories over their heads, armes out of"
"their sids, and littell heades out of the great, as the Dibotes had. I"
"enquired what those handes and heads did signefie; and it was answered"
"that they signefied the good and charetable deeds that those saintes"
"(or holy men) had donne while they were liveing. And it is to be noted"
"that both the Dibotes and all the other 3333 idols were made after an"
"excellent forme neare to the life, and clothed with a gowne (or loose"
"garment) over them, and all gilded over with pure gould, very fresh and"
"glorious to behould."
""
"And just before the Dibotes below were set 3 or 4 roes of other idolls,"
"most of them made after a furious forme, rather lyke divells then men;"
"and behind them all stood two deformed ons, one carying a sack of wynd"
"on his shoulders, and the other a cerkeled wreath or hoope with many"
"knots in it, the one resembling the wyndes, and the other the thunder."
"In fyne, this temple is the most admerablest thing that ever I saw, and"
"may well be reconed before any of the noted 7 wonders of the world."
""
"And som distance westward from these 2 temples stands the sepulchre of"
"Ticus Samme, _allis_ Quambecon Dono,[221] a thinge to be wondred at,"
"and rather to be admired then to be discribed. It is a hudge big"
"howse, of an admerable workmanshipp both within and without, far"
"excelling either of the other temples, and within it many pillars"
"covered with bras enameled and gilded over with gould; and the flowre"
"of plankes very black, shynyng lyke ebony. But we could not be sufferd"
"to enter, but only to look in a wyndor or grates. And to the place"
"where the corps (or ashes) are set, yow must assend up 8 or 9 steps or"
"degrees, very lardge, made parte of gilded bras and parte of black"
"wood or ebony. And by the corps borneth a contynewall lampe, watched"
"by a _boz_ or pagon prist. And for the workemanshipp about that place,"
"it exceedeth my memory to discribe it; only, all I can say, it may"
"well befitt the entering of so famouse an Emperour."
""
"And I had forgot to note downe that before the east gate of the"
"temple of Dibotes stands a rownd hill of an endifferant biggnes, on"
"the top whereof standeth a ston pillar, lyke the crosses in papistes"
"churchyardes; which hill, as I was tould, was made of the eares and"
"noses of the Coreans which were slayne when Ticus Samme did conquer"
"that cuntrey som 24 or 25 years past. In fyne, we saw divers other"
"monumentes and pagods, very sumptuous, with cloisters rownd about them"
"lyke papistes monestaries, wherein the _bozes_ or pagon pristes live"
"in greate pompe, lyke our frairs and monks in Christendom, from whence"
"it seemeth they had their origenall; for the pagon religion is of more"
"antiquetie, and as many sectes or orders as the Christians."
""
"Capt. Adames came to Miaco this day, being well amended, yet not"
"without paine in his shoulder."
""
