"x"
"_January 1, 1615[6]._--Mr. Hunt, the master of the _Hozeander_,"
"remenyng still in his extreme humours (as I have fownd hym allwaies"
"the same man ever since he came into Japon), wrot a letter to Capt."
"Coppendall, he being sick in bed (as he hath byn most an end ever since"
"he retorned from Miaco), and I verely think that the unruly company of"
"the shipp to be the cheefe occation--I say he advised Capt. Coppendall"
"he would com ashore to morrow and geve direction how to cast bras"
"shivars and shot for ordinance, aledging the guner knew nothing for"
"shott, nor no man else but hym selfe for the rest. Yet, for my parte,"
"I rest dowbtfull whether it be soe or noe, only I wrot hym before in"
"frendly sort to com ashore and assist me in these matters for the"
"service of the Wor. Company, our emploiers, because the Duch sent"
"away shipp after ship yerly full laden with shot, powlder, ordinance,"
"victuells, and munision, and I would in som sort geve a reason or tast"
"to our emploiers of these matters and send them samples with price."
"But, as it should seeme, the master disenableth all but hymselfe, and"
"others hould back, I know not whether upon sutteltie to leave the other"
"in lurch, as debasing all but hym selfe. But be it the one or other,"
"the Companies busynes rests undon, etc., and the very truth is, here"
"doe I confes before God and the world, I never did see a more unruly"
"compa. of people, and are far worse then they in the _Clove_, allthough"
"they were bad enough."
""
"And yisternight, very late, came on Jno. Shippard, a tapstar as I"
"understand, and in very deed a shuffling fello, not worthy water for"
"his hier. He is a turbulent fello, a make bate, and sett the master"
"at odds with others per meanes of his smouthe tong, and yet a drunken"
"fello, as most of the rest are the lyke; and came againe into the"
"kitchin to quarrell with our cooke at supper tyme, I desyring Mr."
"Osterwick to put hym out of the howse and send hym abord the shipp;"
"but he fell upon Mr. Osterwick, and puld his clothes afe his back, and"
"misused hym, for which I put hym in the bilboes to cowle his feete till"
"mornyng."
""
