"x"
"_September 7._--Very early in the mornyng the king entred into Firando,"
"and the Duch shot ofe 3 small peces ordinance as he passed by, out"
"of the howse, and 20 peces ordinance out of the greate ship, and 6"
"out of the small, with 2 volle of small shot out of each ship. And"
"our shipp, the _Hozeander_, shot affe 11 peces ordinance. And sowne"
"after I sent our _jurebasso_ to Oyen Sono, to desyre hym to exskews me"
"towardes the king, for that I came not to kisse his handes in respect"
"I thought he was awery of his voyage per sea. He said he would adviz"
"the king thereof, and that I had reason in not coming, for that he was"
"overweryed."
""
"I delivered 50 _taies_ to Mr. Nealson, and one hundred and fiftie"
"to Mr. Wickham in part of his cargezon, and 50 _taies_ to Capten"
"Copendall. And Mr. Wickham had a peece fine black taffete, cost me"
"29 _mas_. And Andrea Dittis, the China Capt., brought back a bar of"
"Oban gould, sent his brother before to geve to a god child, but now"
"retorned, and poz. fyftie and five _taies_."
""
"And Tono Samme, the king, sent for me to com and speake with hym; which"
"I did, accompanid with Capt. Copendall. He tould me that Shongo Samme"
"was gon for Edo before he came away, and that he thought the ould"
"Emperour was gone for Shrongo before this tyme. Soe he offerd me his"
"letters of favour to Codskin Dono and Safian Dono, because (as he said)"
"the Spaniardes and Portingals were rejected and not suffred to com in"
"the Emperours presence, nether would he vouchsafe to receve any present"
"they sent hym. Also he said that he thought this junck which the"
"Hollanders had taken was good prise, because they had not the Emperours"
"passe; and therefore he would not meddell in the matter."
""
"I could not forget to note downe how Mr. Hunt, the master of the"
"_Hozeander_, fell out with Roland Thomas, the purcer. Soe they went"
"together by the eares. I condeme them both very much; but surely they"
"were drunk, espetially the master, and I think he is crazed in his"
"witts."
""
"I wrot a letter to Gon Rock Dono, how the Portingals had taken"
"Damian Marin and Jno. de Lievana prisoners abord there great ship at"
"Langasaque, desiring restetution of them, or else I would complaine to"
"the Emperour."
""
