"x"
"_October 13._--This night past, about midnight, our small skiffe of"
"the _Hoziander_ was stolne away and, as the shipps company sayeth, per"
"a Hollander which ran away from the great shipp, being one of the two"
"I wrot in favour of heretofore, and that they saw hym upon our bridg"
"in the night about midnight; so out of dowbt I think they let hym goe"
"away with the boate, one knave helping or winking at an others escape."
"For truly I neaver saw a more froward and bad leawd company then most"
"of them are, and the cheefe ringleader a master mate called Dorington."
"So that, seeing contynewally their leawd courses in going abroad night"
"and day without leave, the offecers them selves being worst of all, we"
"were forsed to make orders and set them up at meane mast, sortinge the"
"company into therds, one whereof might take their pleasure per day,"
"retorning abord before sonne setting, and the other {~VULGAR FRACTION TWO THIRDS~} to look to shipps"
"busynes and that carpenters doe their labour. This Dorington hath said"
"in open company amongst them all that nether captain, master, nor no"
"other had authority to punish men with ducking nor whiping, geving it"
"out with othes that he and the rest would have victuels as they list,"
"without controle. Once he is a drunken, unruly, mutenouse fello, and"
"not fitt to serve the Wor^{ll} Company."
""
"I sent word to the Duch howse how that fello had stolne away our"
"skiffe; as also I sent word of the lyke to Taccama Samme and the"
"admerall, whoe have sent to look out after hym."
""
"The China Capt. brought me word that all Goto is burned, the kinges"
"howse as well as rest, not one howse left standing of some 300. It is"
"thought the Japans sett it on fyre of purpose to have the riffling"
"of the Chinas goods which came in 7 or 8 junks, but the fyre was so"
"vehement that littell or nothing was saved, 5 Chinas being burned that"
"adventured to save their goods."
""
"And in the after nowne the kings man, which he sent to Langasaque about"
"the setting of Damian and Jno. at liberty, retorned with a sleevles"
"answer, they Portingales answering, as they did before, that they would"
"not deliver them upon noe tearmes. And on the way, as the kings man"
"retorned, som 7 leagues from Firando, he met the Duch man which had"
"stolne our skiffe, and so brought both hym and it back againe. Soe I"
"sent the Duchman to the Hollands howse, for which they gave me many"
"thanks."
""
"I went to the king to certefy hym, or rather to know of hym, what"
"answer he had receavd from Gonrock Dono; which was as I said before."
"Whereupon I desird his Highnesse to lett me have his letters of favour"
"to Safian Dono and to Gota Zazabra, testefying how these 2 men were"
"entertayned into the service of Englishmen to goe in our junck for"
"Syam; which letters the king granted me and sowne after sent them for"
"the English howse. And I wrot an other to Chubio Dono, in the Japan"
"tonge, to desire his assistance in this matter to the Emperour, to get"
"these 2 men sett free. So we hird a light bark which rowed with 4 ores"
"and a fellow to cary those letters, and paid 12 taies small plat for"
"the voyag, to deliver the letters to Mr. Wm. Eaton at Osekay, or Miaco;"
"in doing whereof they are to rowe night and day."
""
