"x"
"_August 1._--The China Capt., Andrea Dittis, retorned from Langasaque"
"and brought me a present from his brother, viz., 1 faire _kitesoll_,"
"2 spoutpots or ewers of tynn silverd, 2 pec. China lynen, and 1 peec."
"silk lane; and he hym selfe sent a white _catabra_. He sayeth, tuching"
"our affares in Cochinchina, that the kyng denyeth that he never was"
"consenting to the death of our people, nether knew of it till it was"
"donne, it being donne per the Japons and not per his people; and that"
"for the money he owed us for the goods he bought of Mr. Peacock he was"
"willing to pay it, but non came to demand it; and for the rest of our"
"goods it was retorned back to our junck it cam in, etc.; and offred to"
"geve the China (our soliceter) his letter or passe for any mans safe"
"coming that I would send to receve it. But yow must understand Capt."
"Speck sent a Japon about the lyke matter for the Hollanders, with a"
"present for the king, which he receaved. But this Japon lodged in"
"the howse of another Japon theefe, where they handled the matter soe"
"amongst them that the king retorned word of mouth to Capt. Speck that"
"he would not make them restetution of any thing, and, yf they sent any"
"more shiping, he would use them as he did the other. And those Japon"
"theeves, knowing how the king had promised restetution, went to hym and"
"perswaded hym to the contrary, telling hym that, yf he made restetution"
"to us, he must doe the lyke to the Hollanders. Soe that when the China,"
"our soliceter, went for the kinges letter, he denyed it hym. Thus the"
"second tyme were we crost per the Hollanders."
""
"And I thought good to note downe that the China Capt., Andrea Dittis,"
"came and tould me how his brother Whaw at Langasaque desired to have it"
"under my hand writing tuching procuring trade into China. For, as he"
"sayeth, they have laid out 3,000 _taies_ allready to make way, and make"
"reconying it will cost them 5,000 _taies_ more, is all 8,000 _taies_"
"(I say eight thousand _taies_); which, yf in case they procure us free"
"trade into China, we are to pay them the said eight thousand _taies_"
"back, with what else shall be thought fiting. But yf they do not"
"procure us free trade into China, the losse to stand upon them selves."
""
"I forgot to note downe how Jorge Durois wrot me how a greate Holland"
"ship was cast away on the cost of Lucan in the Phillippinas, out of"
"the which the contrey people saved 5 greate peeces of ordinance, and"
"that most parte of the men were cast away in the ship, and those which"
"escaped per swyming were taken prisoners and sent to Manillia to Don"
"Juan de Silvas, whoe they say is ready with forcese to depart to reskew"
"them at the Molucas; but I can hardly beleeve it."
""
"Also a frend of Capt. Adames tould hym that three daies past arived"
"an emptie junck at Langasaque, which came from Cagallon in the"
"Phillippinas, and is one of the Japan junckes which we thought was lost"
"with ours which Water Carwarden was in, and came out of Cochinchina 7"
"daies before our junck could be ready to departe, and was driven on"
"the cost of Cord (_sic_) per stormy wether, and put among the ilands"
"Liqueas, yet could not recover port in any of them; yet after recovered"
"the iland of Lucan and put into the roade of Cagallan, having first"
"lost their mastes and throwne all their goods overbord, being glad to"
"escape with life; and from thence are now retorned with the emptie"
"junck, but know nothing of what is becom of ours."
""
"Also this day we put away Fachman, our scullion, and Mr. Nealson paid"
"hym to cleare his accompt."
""
"And I sent Capt. Adames to Cochi, viz.,"
""
"                          _ma. con._"
"  110 straw bags, cost      2   8"
"  50 poles, cost            1   5"
"                           ------"
"                            4   3"
"                           ------"
""
"Also I sent hym 3 loves of bread, and wrot hym the news of that junk"
"which was reported to hym came from Cagallion is untrew, for it is"
"a junk belo[ng]ing to the China Capt. brother, and came not from"
"Cochinchina last yeare; so that is a lye."
""
"And we entertayned a new skullion named Sayemond at one _tay_ per month."
""
