"x"
"_October 14._--I wrot two letters, dated yisterday but kept till this"
"day, the one to Mr. Wickham to Miaco, and the other to Firando to Mr."
"Nealson and Mr. Osterwick, advising them of what is past, as also"
"sending two _goshons_ to Firando, one for Cochinchina and the other for"
"Syam, to be a meanes to helpe to sell our junck. Also I wrot a letter"
"in Japons to the China Capt., Andrea Dittis, and an other to Matinga;"
"and sent all these letters expres per Jaquise."
""
"Cacayemon Dono, the Emperours secretary, sent me word late yisternight"
"how he had spoaken with his master, and gave me councell to send Capt."
"Adames and Gorezano our jurebasso betymes this mornyng to speake with"
"his master, which they did before son rising; but he was gone out"
"to the Admerall of the Sea, Shongo Dono, before they came. So they"
"retorned without doing any thinge. And after, the said secretary,"
"Cakeamon Dono, came to me and gave me councell to make a petition to"
"them all, and goe and watch them as they came from the Admeralls howse"
"and deliver it unto them. He tought me to indite it, desyring them that"
"yf their affares were so emportunate at present that they could not"
"speake to the Emperour for enlardging our privelegese, that then it"
"would please them to geve me a letter of pasification to the justice"
"of Miaco and those partes, for the selling of such goods as we had"
"theare, and the next spring I would retorne to renew my sute about our"
"privelegese."
""
"This petision I deliverd to Oyen Donos handes, which he receaved with a"
"frownyng countenance, calling Capt. Adames to hym and gave it hym back,"
"asking hym whie he let on com to him that could not speake, and bad hym"
"bring our petision hom to his howse. Soe sowne after Capt. Adames went"
"to his howse with our _jurebasso_, but could not com to speach of hym,"
"and soe retorned."
""
"It is said that the merchantes of Miaco are com to this place to sue to"
"the Emperour that we may sell no goodes in this place of Edo nether,"
"which as yet is not denid us. I am still of the opinion that the"
"Councell, haveing put it into the Emperours head that it is fitt we"
"should be restrayned to Firando, dare not now speake unto hym to the"
"contrary, he being such a furiose man. So I dowbt we shall not now get"
"any good answer, to my no small greefe."
""
