"x"
"_September 4._--We were enformed of another noble man neare the"
"Emperor, called Ando Tushma Dono, unto whome it was thought fitt to"
"geve a present as to the former, this Emperour being newly com to the"
"crowne, and the Spaniard haveing geven out ill reportes of us that"
"we rob and stayle from all we meete at sea, which was tould to us by"
"greate men in the Emperours pallas, which is because Capt. Keeling"
"tooke 3 of their shipps (I meane Portingals) coming from Surat. But"
"Capt. Adames did enforme them the trew occation thereof, how they"
"Portingals did still molest our shiping at Surat, so that now we had"
"wars against them and comition to take either Spa. or Port. where we"
"met them, in regard they took us. Yt seemeth there is many papistes in"
"these partes, which would doe us a mischeefe yf they could; yet the"
"best is, the Emperour and them about hym are no frendes of Portingals"
"nor Spa., and the rather for the extreme hate they beare to Jesuistes"
"and pristes, whom they canot abide, and gave us warnyng that we should"
"not com in their company, but rather to reveale them, to the entent"
"they might be punished."
""
"Jacob the Duch man, which came into Japon with Capt. Adames, came to"
"vizet me, and offerd his servis to the English. He is a cawker, a pore"
"fello. The Duch offerd hym 3_l._ 10_s._ per month the last yeare; but"
"he refuced it, and after would have taken it, but then they would not"
"geve it. And I put hym ofe with fayre wordes, telling hym we wanted no"
"people, but had more then our trade did afford. I gave his wife and his"
"sister each of them a single pece chint bramport."
""
"Also we gave 2 pec. grogren, 3 pec. chint bramport, and 6 duble bookes"
"to the secretaries of Codgkin Dono and Oyen Dono."
""
"This day in the after nowne, about 4 a clock, was an other earthquake,"
"but of small contynewance, and gave but one great shake."
""
"Mrs. Adames and her sonne sent me a letter from Oringaua, with a peec."
"pouldren beefe, exskewsing their not coming to Edo, in respeck of the"
"Spaniardes which did lie at their howse."
""
