"x"
"_January 3._--This mornyng very cold wether, being a greate snowe,"
"the greatest I saw since our arivall in Japon, with a stiffe gale"
"wind northerly, rack from W. all day, and snow per fitts all day, but"
"littell or non per night. The King of Firandos host at Osekay came"
"againe and brought a present of figges, telling me he was to retorne"
"to his howse, the king haveing rewarded hym well, as all the caveleros"
"in his kingdom did the lyke, towardes the setting him up a new howse,"
"his ould being burned in the wars with all that ever he had. Soe, with"
"consent of Capt. Coppendall and the rest, ther was a bar of plate of 4½"
"_taies_ and a bag of rise of 51 _gantes_ geven hym and sent after hym"
"to his lodging."
""
"There was delivered to the fownder for formes as followeth: 1 bras"
"shiver of the boate; 1 rownd shot of saker; 1 langrell shot of saker;"
"1 crosbar shot of minion; 5 braz of severall sortes--to make others"
"by. And I agreed with hym as followeth: to make 5 greate bras shivers"
"of 35 or 86 _cattes_ per shiver; 5 others of a lesser sise: 3 others"
"of sise of that of boate; 2 others of bigger sise; 1 quintall bras of"
"severall sortes--and to pay 12 _taies_ per _pico_ for all, on with"
"an other, ready made, the fownder finding all stuffe. Also 100 saker"
"shott, ½ round and other ½ crosbar; 100 minion shot, ½ rownd and other"
"½ crosbar; 50 saker langrell shott, all iron--price made at 14 _mas_"
"per _pico_ or 100 wight Japon. I was forsed to put out these at hazard"
"per ould shott and shivers, the master, Jno. Hunt, not coming to geve"
"direction, nether at my request and writing, nor at sending for of"
"Capt. Coppendall, refusing ever to enter againe into the English howse."
"I could say much of this frantick master, Jno. Hunt; but I leve it to"
"other men to tell."
""
"Also the China Capt., Andrea Dittis, had a littell brod cloth, pink"
"culler, to make his littell doughter a peare of stockinges or bowtes"
"this cold wether."
""
"And there was 3 sackes rise, of 50 _gantes_ per sack, geven to 3 pore"
"Chinas which lost their junck per tempest of the cost of Shashma and"
"came to the China Capt. for releefe, he geveing eche of them a sack"
"rise and a _tay_ in plate. And upon good consideracion I gave them, per"
"generall consent, each one a sack, as above said."
""
"Mr. Dorington late at night came to the English howse, and tould me the"
"master sent hym to tell me the mast was wolled,[121] and ready to bring"
"ship to a caryne."
""
