"x"
"_May 28._--The Chinas rowed for wagers this day in boates with"
"paddelles, som 8 or 9 on a side, seting up a ma[r]k in the sea, and the"
"boate which came first at it got. This they doe upon duble occation;"
"the Chinas houlding on origenall and the Japons an other. This feast"
"begyneth the first of this month of Gonguach, and endeth 5th day, which"
"is to morow, which is the cheefe day both with China and Japon. And"
"this day in the mornyng they decked all the eaves of their howses with"
"green flagges (or segges) mingled with an other green herbe, which they"
"keepe all the yeare after, drying the said herbe, and make littell"
"mattches to burne their bodies, legges, or armes, or any parte wherein"
"they feele payne, which they doe in place of letting blood. I say,"
"wheare we use to lett blood upon occation to sick persons, they use to"
"burne them with this herbe, and esteeme that consecrated this day the"
"best."
""
"And now tuching this feast of Piro (or Pilo), the Chinas hold the"
"origenall as followeth, viz.:--"
""
"They have it by record (or writing), as they say, that many ages past"
"a king of China propownded a question to his sages (or wise men),"
"comanding them to tell hym the truth, what thing only they esteemed the"
"best and most necessary upon the earth for the sustenance of mans lyfe."
"And their were two only that stood in contention about the matter: the"
"one saying that salt was the best; and the other, suger. So the kyng"
"comanded to bring hym both of the on and other and made a tast of both;"
"and fynding the salt so unsavery in his mouth, comanded that wyse man,"
"which spook in praise thereof, to be cast into the say. But thereupon"
"grew such extreme fowle wether for a long tyme afterward, that they had"
"no meanes to mak salt, so that non was to be had to seazon or dres the"
"kinges meate. By which meanes he fownd then by experience that salt was"
"better then suger, and was sory he had soe unadvisedly put the other to"
"death. And on day, as he sat at dyner, in greate care for want of salt,"
"there was som fell downe upon the table, and he knew not from whence"
"it came. This miracle (they say) hapned the first day of Gonguach, soe"
"that presently the king comanded a seremony to be used upon the sea, in"
"memory of that man which was drownd, whose name was Piro (or Pilo), as"
"aforsaid. So that, as they row, at every strok of paddell they geve,"
"they name Pilo, they being answerd (all in one) with stroke of drum and"
"bras bason. So that, ever since that tyme, they never wanted salt, and"
"contynewally every yeare, at this tyme, use that seremony."
""
"But they Japons howld it to be an other way, yet both agree in"
"the name of the man. The Japons say he was a wise man and a great"
"estronomer, and dwelled in an iland seperated from China, about the"
"cost of Camboja, and that by his learnyng he understood before hand"
"that the iland where he dwelt should sink into the sea, and tould they"
"inhabetantes thereof, willing them to make provision of boates and"
"shiping (in tyme) to carry them away. But they laughed hym to scorne."
"Yet neverthelesse he made provition for hym selfe in tyme, and soe"
"escaped and came to land in another place, all the rest perishing when"
"the iland sunck."
""
