"x"
"_December 30._--I wrot 2 letters to the English and Japon umpra, and"
"sent them 2 present, viz.:--"
""
"  2 fowling peces, cost                     8   8   9"
"  1 pec. spoted satten, cost                8   0   0"
"  1 pec. damask, blak and green             6   0   0"
""
"I forgot to note downe how I went to vizet the _tono_ yisternight,"
"and carid hym a jar conservs, and Capt. Adames carid hym a _barso_"
"wyne and 2 fyshes. I tould hym our junk was ready to departe towardes"
"Syam, offring hym to doe hym any service in that place we could, which"
"he took in good parte, promesing all frenshipp he could towardes our"
"nation, and with all thanking me for the frenshipp I showed hym at his"
"being at Miaco, and telling me I should have barkes ready to toe out"
"our junk at my pleasure, etc."
""
"Our junk being ready to goe out, Taccamon Dono sent me word that,"
"except I would alow of 10 passingers to goe in her, we should have no"
"boates to toe her out, nether would he suffer our offecers to goe in"
"the junk. So the tyde not tarryng for the kyng (as the proverb is), I"
"hired 2 boates by meanes of Capt. Adames, and two I set out my selfe,"
"and the Hollanders sent their _foy fone_, and the China Capt. an other"
"bark, and the _Adviz_ sent her boate; with which we got out our junk,"
"contrary to their expectation, and carid her into Cochy roade. Yet this"
"Taccamon Dono cauced the Japans hostes to our offecers to stay them."
"Wherupon I was forced to goe to the king to complaine, but could not"
"com to speech of hym. So the junk was forced to stay all this day, and"
"loose a fayre wynde. And within night this Taccamon Dono sent 3 or 4"
"men (as coming from the kyng) to have passadg for 3 men, and got the"
"China Capt. to com to speake for them; but I denid them all."
""
"Oyen Dono sent me word the king had reproved Taccamon Dono and bad hym"
"not meddell in our busynes."
""
"Mr. Eaton had one hundred _taies_ alowed hym on his wagis, and I paid"
"hym my selfe."
""
