"x"
"_July 12._--Yisternight late I receaved a letter from Jor. Durois, per"
"Fachemon, dated in Langasaque, 16th July, new stile, wherin he advised"
"me of the entry of a friggat at Langasaque, which came from Goa and"
"tuched at Amaccu; but writ of no newse. Also that 3 barkes of Twans"
"are retorned, which were sent out to have taken Taccasango (or Isla"
"Fermosa), but could effect nothing, yet were put into Cochinchina,"
"where they saw Capt. Adames junk and others labouring to get straight,"
"but thought would not retorne full laden. This he writes."
""
"Jno. Derickson Lamb, the Hollande generall, came to our English"
"howse, and Capt. Speck with the rest of the principall Hollanders did"
"accompany hym. I gave hym the best entertaynment I could, and, as it"
"seemed, to his and the restes content."
""
"And I forgot to note downe that ij or 3 daies past divers Hollanders"
"did sue unto me to get other prisoners pardon, thinking I might doe"
"as much for them as I had donne for others before. Soe this day,"
"amongst other conferrence, I gave hym thanks for the honor he did me"
"in releasing or pardoning those offenders at my being abord, I being"
"ashamed to make sute for any others, although som had entreated me"
"thereunto; yet I desyred Capt. Speck and the rest of the company to"
"speake to the generall in their behalves. In fine, they said nether"
"yea nor no; yet rather made shew to encline to my request. I gave an"
"item to Capt. Speck, and he cald to generall to heare it, that I was"
"enformed to (_sic_) Spaniards went about to soborne their men to run"
"away, and that, yf they took not good heed, they [would] want men to"
"cary away their shipps, and th[at it is] in my opinion not good to"
"use over much p[unishment] for light offences comited per meanes of"
"drunke[nness]. Yt seems they took my adviz in good parte."
""
"Soyemon Dono forestald the bay with netts, and made a fyshing just over"
"against our English howse, and sent me a dish of fysh; and I retornd"
"thanks, with a bottell Spanish wyne and a littell conserves. Soe,"
"presently after, he sent to envite me and the rest English to supper,"
"where, amongst other speeches, I asked them what they thought of this"
"busynes of the Hollanders; and they are of opinion it will not be ended"
"in 1 yeare nor yet in 2, and that the Emperour will hould pocession."
"This they reported, and the rather because answer of the letter sent to"
"themperour about that matter were retornd this day, but noe order that"
"the Hollanders should enjoy that which they have taken."
""
