"x"
"_June 30._--I went and vizeted the Holland generall named Jno."
"Derickson Lamb, and carid hym 2 _barsos_ wyne, a hogg, 20 loves fresh"
"bread, and 5 hense; and to the capt. of the other ii shipps each"
"one a _barso_ wyne, a hog, and 20 loves bread. Yt was taken in good"
"part. I doe perceve by the generall that in the battell they sunk no"
"Spanish shipp, but that iij Hollanders were sunk, viz. the admerall,"
"called the _New Son_, and a lesser shipp and a small peenisse, all"
"the men perishing out of the ij lesser, but saved them which were in"
"the admerall that were left alive, shee being ready to sinke. But the"
"viz-admerall, meeting with the other 2 Holland shipps, burnt her selfe,"
"as I have formerly noted, as also they burned the shipp which went the"
"last yeare from Xaxma with the treasure which came from New Spaine to"
"the vallue of 6 millions; but the money was landed before."
""
"I can heare of no letters they brought for us; only they say the small"
"shipp, which went from hence, was making ready to com back, but can"
"tell nothing of Capt. Keeling, whether he be gon for England or for the"
"Molucas. They allso say the English Capt. at Bantam is dead, but know"
"not his name. Some yet said it was Capt. Jourden, and others said he"
"was gon for England, and he dead that was left in his place. They also"
"report that the _Hector_ was cast away at Surat, for falt of looking to"
"in carynyng."
""
"The ij Duch shipps which came from Bantam did tuch at Pattania, and"
"say there was but ij Englishmen theare, Mr. Browne and a yowth. Also"
"yt was tould them that Mr. Benjamyn Farry was dead at Syam. And they"
"say there was ij French shipps this yeare at Bantam, but came without"
"money and so could doe nothing. Their pilottes were Hollanders, which"
"the Hollanders at Bantam took out of them per force, us they did the"
"like per all other Hollanders they found in them. They say there is iij"
"other French shipps coming after to second them, which, yf they speed"
"no better then these, will not geve the adventurers curadge to send any"
"more."
""
"These Hollanders report very strang newes out of England of treason"
"pretended against the Kinges person, wherin the quandum Countes of"
"Essex, that was marid to the Earle of Somercet, should have a hand, as"
"also be a contriver of the death of Prince Henry. In fine they tell"
"strange matters."
""
"There were 4 or 5 English men abord the _Son_, the admerall shipp of"
"the Hollanders, which, as it seemed, were afraid to make them selves"
"knowne unto me; and one of them, a talle fello, stood staring as yf"
"he had byn agast, and tould me he was dowbtfull whether he might tell"
"me he was an English man or no. It hath made me to enter into many"
"imagenations of the speeches of killing our English men at Pulaway and"
"taking it from our English nation, whome had pocession of it before"
"for the Kinges Ma^{tie} of England. Also of the poisonyng of Capt."
"Castelton, which they put upon the Spaniardes; yet may and is dowbted"
"over much by the familliarety betwix hym and Jno. Derickson Lamb, the"
"Hollandes generall.[244]"
""
